So, guys, in this lecture, really, we were going to cover a special property of the Czar operator,
so czar operator has a supernatural power to segregate the mixture of two things.
For example, separating milk from the water or separating a dissolve sugar from the water.
So do not take these analogs very seriously, but you will realize that operate operator somewhat walks
in this fashion.
So, for example, let us suppose we have two variable and B and you performed the czar of these two
variables and stored the result in the variable R.
So in the second step, if you already know the value of E, you simply perform the czar of E with the
result that is the mixture you will get.
B Likewise, if you already know b just perform the czar operation with the result and you will get
it.
So in the step second and three, we are actually segregating the mixture represented by R and R is
nothing.
But you can visualize R as a mixture or a result of performing Zot on Rarible and B.
And if you already know one of the vegetable, you simply perform the czar with the mixture to get another
vegetable of which is always composed of.
So we were going to exploit this property to do this exercise.
So we already know that a singly linked list node is typically represented by the following structure.
We have data, let's say INT, and we have a pointer to the next note.
All right.
So in a traditional singly linked list, the address part the stores the location of the next node.
So let's say ABCD is the address of the node one, two, three and four.
So the first node will going to store the address of the next node.
All right.
The second Nord will going to store the address of the next port and the third Nord CE would going to
store the address of the next Nord DE.
And the last note of the singly linked list stores the address?
No.
So you must be very much familiar with this concept.
This is just a very basic concept when it comes to data structure and binders.
My question is, can you exploit this XAA property in order to implement a double link list using the
same strict list, nor a structure?
You are not allowed to do any kind of modification and there's still no structure.
And yet you should be able to implement this link list as a link list.
When I say the link list, it means that you should be able to traverse the link list in the forward
direction as well as in the backward direction.
Think about it, can you do that?
So the answer is very simple.
In order to implement the doubling list while preserving the data structure definition of a singly linked
list as it is, what we will going to do is that that the ad was part of each node of the linked list.
We're going to store the czar of the previous node and the next note.
So for example, the node ever going to store the czar of Seattle and the czar of the next node, which
is the ADS-B.
Similarly, the next node be.
We're going to storm the czar of the previous mold on the next note.
So in this case is our sea.
All right.
Similarly, the node number three or were going to store the czar of B and D and they were going to
store the source of C and none because the next node with respect to the node dismal.
So now can we trust the link list in the forward direction?
Well, we can troubles the link list in both directions, provided that you need to catch the address
of the previous Nord in local variable to compute the address of the next node during travel sites and
in either direction.
All right.
So for example, when you start referencing this link list from the first Nord, the address part of
the first Nord already contains the address of the next Nord.
So you travels to the next not.
But during the term, also gas the address of the previous Nord in the local variable.
So let's say we have a local variable CHP and it will store the address of the previous Nord aim.
At this point of time, we are not me.
Now, in order to go to the Nord CE, simply perform the operation of the variable P with whatever value
you have in the spot, so you will end up performing the czar of a czar.
See which comes from that at the start and the czar, which comes from the previous variable.
So you will end up getting the advocacy.
All right.
So when you jump to the North Sea update, the variable P..
To point to the previous Nord, which is been and again to be the same exercise, you will perform the
operation of whatever value you have in the Adva sparred with the previous and would be so that you
will get the next address that is deep and update the previous variable to point to the previous Nord,
which is see.
And once you rise to the Nord to perform the Zahler operation of water, what do you have in the address
bar with the previous Nord?
So here in this case, you will end up getting No.
So this is how travel is done in the forward direction, and exactly the same approach is done while
doing a travel cell in the backward direction.
However, there is one drawback of this technique, and that drawback is that that you cannot do traversal
in either direction that is in forward direction or backward direction.
If I simply give you an address of some mid Nord affordably linked list, so let's assume that the atlas
part of each node of this link list contains the czar of the previous and the next node.
If I only give you the address of some arbitrary node of this link list, you have no way to compute
either the address or address.
Be here in the address part of the Node three you have be Zahedi and you cannot extract out either b
r d from this mixture of ZAR, which is b b because you don't already know the address of the Node B
and A. Be in this case because I have given you a pointer to some made note of this link list, which
in this case is the addressee.
So this is the drawback of this technique.
You can tell us the link list in the forward direction from the beginning node, and you can traverse
the link list in the back, more direction from the and node starting from the Node D, but you cannot
traverse the link list beginning from an ignored in the middle of the linked list.
So this could be one of the cautions that can be put up in competitive programming.
I haven't seen this type of link list anywhere in the production code so far, but this is one of the
clever techniques where resort operation can be used to implement singly linked list as a link list.